Overview:
At a high level, this repo provides the necessary TARGET-AML RNAseq data, metadata, and R code to reproduce one figure (a rough draft of a volcano plot showing differential gene expression between childhood AML and recurrent AML) from our (Kenneth and Amy's) project. 

References: Love MI, Huber W, Anders S (2014). “Moderated estimation of fold change and dispersion for RNA-seq data with DESeq2.” Genome Biology, 15, 550. doi:10.1186/s13059-014-0550-8.
Bolouri, H., Farrar, J., Triche, T. et al. The molecular landscape of pediatric acute myeloid leukemia reveals recurrent structural alterations and age-specific mutational interactions. Nat Med 24, 103–112 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.4439

Data:
The RNAseq data was generated by the Children's Oncology group AML trials. The AML trials characterized over 1000 participants' data (e.g RNAseq, WGS, CpG methylation profiling, etc.); this repository matched the RNAseq data from 356 patients to the provided TARGET metadata. 

Folder substructure:
All data, metadata, and code used to generate the figure is provided in this branch (RNAseqCodeBranch1). The data is provided in the folder titled "TARGET-NCI-AML-RNAseq-data" with each .txt file containing the raw RNAseq gene counts per individual patient. The metadata is provided in tab delimited format, titled "TARGET_AML_mRNA-seq_metadata.txt". The code used to generate the figure is an R file titled "TARGET_NCI_RNAseq_code.R".

Installation:
To reproduce this figure, the latest version of R and RStudio will be required (4.3.3 and 2023.12.1+402, respectively). The latest versions of BiocManager (1.30.22), dplyr (1.1.4), ggplot2 (3.5.0), DESeq2, and GO.db are required. Specifically, DESeq2 and GO.db require BiocManager to be installed (specific code is commented out and provided in lines 1-4 in "TARGET_NCI"RNAseq_code.R".



